#More Pivot Tables

The data set in the Excel file AccountingProfessionals.xlsx provides the results of a survey of 27 employees in a tax division of a Fortune 100 company.

You are to create a pivottable to count the average number of years of service for males and females with and without a graduate degree.

Open this file.

- [Accounting Professionals](./archives/AccountingProfessionals.xlsx)

Select any cell in the data set, and choose PivotTable on the Insert Tab.
Make sure the data set is selected correctly and create the pivottable on a new sheet as before.

Drag and drop the Gender variable to the Row Labels area, the variable Graduate Degree? into the Column Labels area, and the variable Years of Service into the Values area.

You have now created a pivottable however the sum of years of service (default) is probably not what you would want.

In the options tab under PivotTable Tools in the menu bar, click on the Active Field group and choose Value Field Settings. You will be able to change the summarization method in the pivottable.

Selecting Average results in the PivotTable showing the average number of years service. Is there a difference between the average for those with and without degrees? What is the difference between males and females in years of service?

You can easily change the variables under analysis or drag variables to different field areas. You can also add multiple variables in the fields to create different views of the data.

The best way to learn about PivotTables is to experiment with them.

